---
page_title: "rapid7_siem_detection_rule_exception"
subcategory: ""
description: |-
  Manages an exception applied to a detection rule https://docs.rapid7.com/insightidr/detection-rule-exceptions
---

# rapid7_siem_detection_rule_exception (Resource)

Manages an [exception applied to a detection rule](https://docs.rapid7.com/insightidr/detection-rule-exceptions)



## Example

```terraform
resource "rapid7_siem_detection_rule_exception" "example_exception" {
  rule_rrn = rapid7_siem_detection_rule.example_rule.rrn

  name = "Suppress for me"

  action   = "OFF"
  priority = "LOW"

  logic = {
    # One of either a collection of key-value pair conditions...
    conditions = [
      {
        key            = "user"
        operator       = "IS"
        value          = "trusted"
        case_sensitive = false
      },
      {
        key      = "source_ip"
        operator = "CIDR"
        value    = "127.0.0.1/32"
      }
    ]

    # ...or a LEQL exception
    # leql = <<-LEQL
    #   where(
    #     user IN [trusted, safe] AND
    #     source_ip = IP(127.0.0.1/32)
    #   )
    # LEQL
  }
}
```



<!-- schema generated by tfplugindocs -->
## Schema

### Required

- `action` (String) Action taken when the exception matches an event
  * `OFF` - No detection is generated. Priority is not applicable.
  * `ASSESS_ACTIVITY` - Statistics are collected, but no detection is generated. Priority is not applicable.
  * `TRACKS_NOTABLE_EVENTS` - A notable event is added to an open investigation, if one exists. Priority is not applicable.
  * `CREATES_ALERTS` - An alert is created. Priority is required to be one of `INFO` `LOW` `MEDIUM` `HIGH` `CRITICAL`
  * `CREATES_INVESTIGATIONS` - An investigation is opened. Priority is required to be one of `LOW` `MEDIUM` `HIGH` `CRITICAL`
- `logic` (Attributes) Logic defining when the exception is applied (see [below for nested schema](#nestedatt--logic))
- `name` (String) Name of the exception
- `rule_rrn` (String) RRN of a detection or custom detection rule which the exception will be applied to

### Optional

- `priority` (String) Priority override applied when the exception matches
  * `INFO` - Informational
  * `LOW` - Low
  * `MEDIUM` - Medium
  * `HIGH` - High
  * `CRITICAL` - Critical

### Read-Only

- `rrn` (String) Unique identifier for the exception

<a id="nestedatt--logic"></a>
### Nested Schema for `logic`

Optional:

- `conditions` (Attributes List) Simple key-value pairs of conditions (see [below for nested schema](#nestedatt--logic--conditions))
- `leql` (String) LEQL query logic matching events the exception will apply to
- `testcases` (Attributes List) A testcase evaluates the content of a provided payload against the rule logic to ensure the rule behaves as expected. When creating a plan the testcases for all changed rules are evaluated and must pass for the plan to succeed. (see [below for nested schema](#nestedatt--logic--testcases))

<a id="nestedatt--logic--conditions"></a>
### Nested Schema for `logic.conditions`

Required:

- `key` (String) Key to match against using the operator and value specified
- `operator` (String) Matching operation performed
  * `IS` - The value of the key is the same as the condition's value
  * `CONTAINS` - The value of the key contains the condition's value as a substring
  * `STARTSWITH` - The value of the key has the condition's value as a prefix
  * `ENDSWITH` - The value of the key has the condition's value as a suffix
  * `CIDR` - The value of the key is an IP address, and the value of the condition is a CIDR specification - e.g. 192.168.0.0/24
  * `REGEX` - The condition's value is a regular expression which is matched against the key's value. Anchored? Flags? Syntax?
- `value` (String) Match criteria - see operator for format

Optional:

- `case_sensitive` (Boolean) If the matching is performed case sensitively


<a id="nestedatt--logic--testcases"></a>
### Nested Schema for `logic.testcases`

Required:

- `matches` (Boolean) Whether the payload provided is expected to match the rule logic
- `payload` (Attributes) Payload data used to evaluate rule logic (see [below for nested schema](#nestedatt--logic--testcases--payload))

<a id="nestedatt--logic--testcases--payload"></a>
### Nested Schema for `logic.testcases.payload`

Required:

- `context` (String) A string representing a JSON-encoded value which the `from` clause of the rule matches against. Use the [jsonencode](https://developer.hashicorp.com/terraform/language/functions/jsonencode) function to write values inline, or the [file](https://developer.hashicorp.com/terraform/language/functions/file) function to reference a JSON file
- `data` (String) A string representing a JSON-encoded value which the `where` clause of the rule matches against. Use the [jsonencode](https://developer.hashicorp.com/terraform/language/functions/jsonencode) function to write values inline, or the [file](https://developer.hashicorp.com/terraform/language/functions/file) function to reference a JSON file
