---
page_title: "rapid7_siem_detection_rule"
subcategory: ""
description: |-
  Manages a custom detection rule https://docs.rapid7.com/insightidr/custom-detection-rules
---

# rapid7_siem_detection_rule (Resource)

Manages a [custom detection rule](https://docs.rapid7.com/insightidr/custom-detection-rules)



## Example

```terraform
resource "rapid7_siem_detection_rule" "example_rule" {
  name           = "Horrible Malware"
  description    = "Detects horrible malware"
  recommendation = "Uninstall!"
  techniques     = ["T1589"]

  action   = "CREATES_ALERTS"
  priority = "MEDIUM"

  logic = {
    leql = <<-LEQL
      from(event_type = process_start_event)
      where(
        process.cmd_line ICONTAINS "malware.exe"
      )
    LEQL
  }
}
```



<!-- schema generated by tfplugindocs -->
## Schema

### Required

- `action` (String) Action taken when the detection rule matches an event
  * `OFF` - No detection is generated. Priority is not applicable.
  * `ASSESS_ACTIVITY` - Statistics are collected, but no detection is generated. Priority is not applicable.
  * `TRACKS_NOTABLE_EVENTS` - A notable event is added to an open investigation, if one exists. Priority is not applicable.
  * `CREATES_ALERTS` - An alert is created. Priority is required to be one of `INFO` `LOW` `MEDIUM` `HIGH` `CRITICAL`
  * `CREATES_INVESTIGATIONS` - An investigation is opened. Priority is required to be one of `LOW` `MEDIUM` `HIGH` `CRITICAL`
- `description` (String) A description of the purpose of the rule
- `logic` (Attributes) Rule logic defining the conditions for events the rule will match. (see [below for nested schema](#nestedatt--logic))
- `name` (String) Name of the rule
- `priority` (String) Priority associated with the action, required when applicable
  * `INFO` - Informational
  * `LOW` - Low
  * `MEDIUM` - Medium
  * `HIGH` - High
  * `CRITICAL` - Critical

### Optional

- `recommendation` (String) Advice for triaging or investigating detections generated by this rule
- `techniques` (Set of String) MITRE technique or sub-technique T-codes associated with the rule
- `threshold` (Attributes) Additional time-based restrictions on matching (see [below for nested schema](#nestedatt--threshold))

### Read-Only

- `rrn` (String) Unique identifier for the rule
- `version_rrn` (String) Unique identifier for the rule version

<a id="nestedatt--logic"></a>
### Nested Schema for `logic`

Required:

- `leql` (String) LEQL logic defining the conditions for events the rule will match.
Must include a from clause with an event_type condition and where clause with a condition on at least one key

Optional:

- `testcases` (Attributes List) A testcase evaluates the content of a provided payload against the rule logic to ensure the rule behaves as expected (see [below for nested schema](#nestedatt--logic--testcases))

<a id="nestedatt--logic--testcases"></a>
### Nested Schema for `logic.testcases`

Required:

- `matches` (Boolean) Whether the payload provided is expected to match the rule logic
- `payload` (Attributes) Payload data used to evaluate rule logic (see [below for nested schema](#nestedatt--logic--testcases--payload))

<a id="nestedatt--logic--testcases--payload"></a>
### Nested Schema for `logic.testcases.payload`

Required:

- `context` (String) A string representing a JSON-encoded value which the `from` clause of the rule matches against. Use the [jsonencode](https://developer.hashicorp.com/terraform/language/functions/jsonencode) function to write values inline, or the [file](https://developer.hashicorp.com/terraform/language/functions/file) function to reference a JSON file
- `data` (String) A string representing a JSON-encoded value which the `where` clause of the rule matches against. Use the [jsonencode](https://developer.hashicorp.com/terraform/language/functions/jsonencode) function to write values inline, or the [file](https://developer.hashicorp.com/terraform/language/functions/file) function to reference a JSON file




<a id="nestedatt--threshold"></a>
### Nested Schema for `threshold`

Required:

- `condition` (Attributes) Controls which events satisfying the threshold criteria will generate detections. (see [below for nested schema](#nestedatt--threshold--condition))
- `count_by` (Set of String) If specified, these keys are extracted from each event's payload, and the relevant threshold window's count is incremented for each distinct set of values observed.
- `group_by` (Set of String) If specified, these keys are extracted from each event's payload, and a separate threshold window is considered for each distinct set of values.
- `timespan` (String) The maximum duration between the first and last event considered in a threshold window.

<a id="nestedatt--threshold--condition"></a>
### Nested Schema for `threshold.condition`

Optional:

- `max` (Number) If specified, the final detection will be triggered on the N-th event satisfying the threshold criteria.
- `min` (Number) If specified, the first detection will be triggered on the N-th event satisfying the threshold criteria.
